docs: how-arbitrum-works-reorg (#1866)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: website/archive/12-nitro-vs-classic.mdx

> Why Nitro?

Reviewer: Adding a Frontmatter might be in order.

Having code that is as simple and easy to reason about as possible is important for L2 systems, which are inevitably complex. The classic stack represents a large codebase built in-house, which requires a fair amount of time and overhead to understand. The AVM together with ArbOS effectively constitute a full blockchain protocol built from the ground up. Since the AVM was custom-built, with no high-level languages yet created for it, the ArbOS logic had to be implemented in what was essentially a custom language — called “mini” — along with a mini-to-AVM compiler.

> Nitro’s direct usage of Geth means most of the work of creating an L2 VM is inherited right out of the box. The ArbOS custom logic (which, happily, can now be written in Go instead of mini), is much slimmer than in the classic stack; since the work of emulating the EVM is now handled by the Geth software, ArbOS needs only to implement the things specific and necessary for layer 2 (i.e., L1/L2 gas accounting, special message types for cross-chain transactions, etc.) Leaner, simpler code — much of which directly inherits engineering hours that have been put into an Ethereum-Geth itself — makes it a system that’s far more accessible for auditors and contributors, giving us strong confidence in its implementation security that will only harden as the ecosystem grows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nitro’s direct usage of Geth means most of the work of creating an L2 VM is inherited right out of the box. The ArbOS custom logic (which, happily, can now be written in Go instead of mini) is much slimmer than in the classic stack; since the Geth software now handles the work of emulating the EVM, ArbOS needs only to implement the things specific and necessary for layer 2 (i.e., L1/L2 gas accounting, special message types for cross-chain transactions, etc.) Leaner, simpler code — much of which directly inherits engineering hours that have been put into an Ethereum-Geth itself — makes it a system that’s far more accessible for auditors and contributors, giving us strong confidence in its implementation security that will only harden as the ecosystem grows.
```
